in a lot of ways this is the kind of
story I came on YouTube in the first
place to tell and I'm somewhat surprised
that the story I haven't told before at
least not on camera on the other hand
I'm hesitant because there were probably
like four really great stories here all
bundled up into one in this video I'm
gonna talk a little bit philosophically
about the problem of video game
addiction and I'm also gonna tell a
story of me just straight up picking up
a woman of me meeting a complete
stranger one of the only times in my
life where I walked up on somebody with
no other context and was just like hey
you're beautiful eat lunch with me and
lunch date turned into a dinner date we
spent the whole day together I had a big
whole romantic thing and to some extent
it was a success and the stomach stent
it was a dramatic failure because
MainTop with this video video game
addiction it turned out that she was a
video game addict and that bundles this
up into one story there came a point
when I realized maybe they spend a bit
too much time playing video games I
thought why don't I have any idea what I
want to do with my life and then I
realized no that's completely wrong I do
have an idea of what I want to do you I
thought lots of ideas why have I not
done any of these things it's because
they're hard they take time to get good
at what I want to give up video games
for I like video games video games are
fun they're relaxing they make me happy
and alas I once again returned to
playing taking half a step back before I
made this video I made a quick survey of
other videos on YouTube from within the
last one year dealing with quitting
video games I wasn't looking for the
word addiction looking videos talking
about the importance of quitting video
games earlier today in the last few days
I've been listening to an audio book
about the history of slavery I'm gonna
say very little about it now because
it's completely inevitable we're gonna
do some kind of book review video on
this book it's a really interesting
really compelling
book about the history slavery but what
really struck me today was the absence
of any positive plan for the future the
absence of any kind of positive utopian
vision with the particulars of the
history of slavery I was listening you
today or you know you could kind of see
the colonial government had the
short-term coping strategies with
creating a slave Society but it was like
did these guys ever stop and think just
looking next 50 years
how was this gonna work out what we what
hoover linx out trying to do here in the
same way what really struck me as
lacking in the videos I saw about
quitting video games today was any kind
of positive vision any kind of positive
motivation for quitting video games and
to some extent I sympathize we can all
sympathize I think the word addiction is
a little bit overused or misplaced here
but there's a lot of self-loathing a lot
of the guys making these games they
don't feel a sense of pride and positive
motivation what they feel is a sense of
worthlessness I noticed a lot of the
online games now they actually give you
a display counter for how many hours
you've played the game in total so one
guy actually had a screenshot of the
game telling him you've played this game
for 2,700 hours when you have put tons
of hours playing video games there's
usually a tipping point where you start
to feel guilty for some people it can be
2,000 hours 5,000 hours 10,000 hours
even it's a moment where you basically
realize you have an addiction and it
interferes with the important things you
need to be doing in your life it's that
state where you know you aren't doing
anything else with your life and you
want to do better things with your time
playing video games is a way to escape
and it surprises the real you and the
real talents you have inside you that
would have emerged if you weren't
playing video games all day there's a
sense of self-loathing and then they
kind of struggle with that self-loathing
and they think oh I could have learned
to play guitar I could have learned to
be a great painter I could have worked
on my career or I could have had a girl
friend and there's this cycle of
self-hatred and self-recrimination and
you know no no no I shouldn't play video
games I mustn't even though it's
enjoyable even though they like it but
what's lacking there is this really
positive vision of the future and with
with human lifespans let's say it's five
years instead of 50 years hey where do I
want to be positively five-person what's
my positive motivation for what I'm not
playing video games for why I'm doing
something you know way better with
mother I to me that's a funny pattern
that's really lacking here I got off an
airplane at Vancouver Airport and this
is I think the only time in my life I've
walked up on a female a complete
stranger where there wasn't some kind of
context that would either introduce her
to me or me to her so you know what do I
mean by that I don't know like all the
time women tried to spark up with me
like a German woman in Thailand were
both on vacation in Thailand where
there's that in common where the woman
comes up to me and says oh hey I'm gonna
go visit this Buddhist temple what do
you know about Buddhism and then we
start talking about Buddhism I'm not
saying there's a lot income there but
there's some kind of context for why you
started talking obviously I've spent a
lot of my life on University campuses
and doing research so if I'm doing
research on a given topic and there's
some other woman and she says oh hey
you're doing research on this topic I
also have this interest so there's some
guy or maybe I start up with her the
vast majority of situations where either
a woman is sparking it with me or I'm
sparking it with her there is no
conclusion I get to know them enough to
figure out that I'm not really
interested the vast majority of times it
goes nowhere
but I meet I might be forgetting
something I'm now 40 years old but this
is the only time I can really remember
distinctly where I was at an airport you
know what is it airports you got time to
kill it's nothing else to do I was like
well there's this beautiful woman
standing here she also has nothing else
to do you know just as the rap songs to
have it I am just gonna walk up on her
and say hey Oh
let's go eat lunch together let's you
know let's do sleep positive you're
standing around this airport you're
beautiful I want to know you but where
there was nothing else there was just me
walking up to her and saying hey you
know you're beautiful eat lunch with me
and it was a really long day where we
ate lunch together we spent the whole
day together we dinner together the day
ended up wrapping up around midnight so
remember a lot of couples if you kind of
meet and you do it's like more than
three dates in one day the amount of
quality time you'd have getting to know
somebody under regular circumstances you
take someone to a movie or you meet
someone for coffee you might go on three
dates to the person and not get to know
them that well as it happened in these
circumstances this is here in Western
Canada um you know I really got to know
work to a significant extent
now she lied to me about her age she
told me she was in her mid-20s and that
time I was either 36 at 37 and for me
mid-20s is fine
like when I'm on University campus I'm
avoiding women who are way down at the
regular university age or like 19 or
something but if you told me you're 25
okay I don't see that as an unbridgeable
gap my current girlfriend is 26 we met
when she was 24 mid-20s from me is okay
but she told me she was in her mid-20s
and there were a bunch of really weird
topics she was ignorant of there was an
airplane with pontoons not everyone
knows the word pontoons it was an
airplane capable of takeoff and landing
on the water and she was just baffled by
this she I didn't know anything like
that existed you know I've never seen
her heard in that it's like you've been
living under a rock I mean there was
sort of this series of odd things that
you kind of think everyone knows you
know I mean one of them was you know
there was a
the where we ended up eating lunch there
one of these stupid ice-cream machines
so I'm vegan she was not vegan you know
where you know you pull a lever like
this and the ice cream kind of yummy -
she's never seen this before and you
know like I understand she's late
freaked out but I can when I was a child
like this is really weird like you pull
this lever and the Machine kind of poos
out the ice cream you know a little
weird like you know you got 25 or
something and you ain't ever you know
what you know what do you been so other
things that weren't really red flags
right there wasn't anything wrong but um
you know she told me that you know she
was becoming a dentist and she didn't
really want to become a dentist but her
grades were so bad that dentistry was
really the best option she had and there
were kind of other things she regretted
about her life she told me what some of
the personal tragedy she's come through
there were all these funny bits and
pieces and then at one point she started
asking me about video games so if you
guys are real watch this channel you
know I do have a history of video games
from my childhood and from this brief
weird period where I was paid to be a
video games journalist and one tell
stories about that I wasn't like a big
successful video games journalist but
back in those days the industry was
really generous so you just got a lot of
free stuff from even being a really
minor trivial of no significance video
games journalist I was treated really
well by the industry there were a lot of
rewards the short period my life for
this video so you know I do know some
stuff about video games she starts
talking about video games and there's
also word she knows nothing
she literally didn't know the word Sega
I think she didn't know the word
Nintendo like you know I'm making
conversation she asked me something
about my own history playing video games
growing up and like you know I start
tongue her it's like her story is you
know she got addicted to one of these PC
based personal computer based video
games one video game
and she never even tried any other
videogame her addiction to this one game
was so absolutely it was a massively
multiplayer online games game involving
other people and she played this game
all day every day she did just enough
schoolwork that she never dropped out of
school or anything like that she would
talk to other human beings while she was
at school but she said the minute school
ended or the minute she was done her
homework she just did the minimum that
absolutely all of her waking hours went
into playing this video game and she
just made the resolution like a couple
weeks before she happened to me me me
that she was never gonna play any video
use again and I mean I know like maybe
that's trivial but it's like wow not to
be addicted to video games plural but to
be so addicted to just one video game
that you never even tried other video
games you know like this this obsessive
one I mean you've never heard of Sega or
Nintendo you just got dug into this one
video game for years and years and years
I get tired and mentally fatigued and
then I play a video game because it's
low effort and easy and relaxing and
then I don't stop and then I start to
hate myself because I want to do all of
these things but I've been playing
Minecraft for 10 hours and instead of
stopping and doing something productive
I just carry on playing Minecraft and
feeling sorry for myself and you might
think is makes absolutely no sense and
you'd be right it doesn't however at
some point through all the self-loathing
and time-wasting I decide that's it very
more games from this point on I'm gonna
be productive guilt motivates certain
kinds of human behavior feeling awful
feeling like you could have done
something better with your life feeling
that you could have been a great painter
or a great musician you know feeling
though the loss of your own potential
the loss of your youth maybe that you've
never had a boyfriend every girlfriend
you know I think the challenge is
precisely on a human level
one the one level not to just use
negative motivation with people not to
just be punitive but to have some kind
of positive motivation to talk about
whatever it is and it's got to be it's
got to be unique so that person not
everyone can be a painter not everyone
can be a musician I mean none of this
you know it doesn't make sense in
general it has to make sense reaching
out to that one person and specific and
talk about positively what it is that
they can be for me that was such an
unexpected inversion that whole
situation because this woman she wasn't
fat she wasn't you know she didn't look
in any way like she'd spent all our time
indoors
you know the stereotype about video game
addicts that they were pale and
unhealthy and over obese and so on no
she was beautiful she was friendly she
was self-confident she didn't seem shy
or awkward at all from the first moment
I walked up and sparked up conversation
with her she told me she was in her
mid-20s she was in fact in her early 20s
she was 20 years old flat she later
revealed to me that she lied because she
liked me she wanted to encourage me and
you have the surreal realization like
this is someone who's never used an ice
cream machine it's ridiculous this is
someone who spent so little time outside
of her own house like oh I'm one of a
tiny number of people she's ever had any
kind of face to face conversation with
except for her own teachers and her own
her own family members and you know
obviously what was also revealed in the
end that's how the date ended was that
she was a virgin she'd never been in
love and when she revealed that to me
which she revealed in bed with me at my
apartment I said to her look let's get a
hotel room for you I'm gonna put you in
a hotel room
and I'm gonna sleep in this bed alone
and you know I think that was the
responsible if anti-climatic end of that
evening what is being lost on planet
earth as our range of instincts are
evermore funneled into dissimulated
forms of gratification I mean you see
what our instincts are just looking at
video games people want to kill each
other
it's sad people want to act out the
pantomime of shooting another person in
the head again and again and again for
2,700 hours for hundreds of hours you
know the lust for revenge and violence
and competition and these things you
know but I mean another instinct we all
have is the desire to learn is curiosity
the desire for novelty for new
challenges just even the feeling of
being impatient and frustrated this huge
part of my feeling going through school
I couldn't believe what a waste of time
school was and you know those instincts
can be funneled into making your own
life better or whatever if I'm being
wildly optimistic here sure making the
world a better place and what I hear
again and again just now in looking over
videos in the last year is people saying
oh if you do games are fun if you do
games in your Joya Bowl enjoy yourself
but don't take it too far don't become
an addict and I really feel like the
message in the moral of the story we
have to take out of that it's the
opposite don't have fun don't if this is
something you believe is bad in
principle don't take poison and dilute
it don't take the poison at all if
you're unhappy with your life sit there
and really feel
that unhappiness and start thinking
about constructively how are you gonna
change it how you gonna change your life
your circumstance the world around you
don't take recreational drugs that'll
distract you from that misery don't play
video games let's drag you from that
misery don't you know maybe fun itself
maybe enjoyment itself is kind of the
last you know the last sacred cow the
last unquestioned value here the last
thing that nobody wants to nobody wants
to question the positive or negative
value of nobody wants to look in the
mirror and say as an adult why am i
playing games at all
Tanna tan tan tan
[Music]